in the Senate of the United States a
resolution to establish a Select
Committee of the Senate to conduct an
investigation and study of the extent if
any to which illegal improper or
unethical activities were engaged in by
any persons acting individually or in
combination with others in the
presidential election of 1972 or any
campaign canvass or other activity
related to it over again shuffler adds
more detail on how the Watergate
burglars were arrested then one of them
McCord said he took part only because he
was told the operation was approved by
the then Attorney General John Mitchell
in the second hour McCord testifies that
he Howard hunt and John Caulfield
pressured him to stay silent after his
arrest he said the offers included cash
for bail executive clemency and aid for
his family he said the offers were made
in the name of the White House under
questioning in the third hour McCord
said that G gordon liddy told him that
John Mitchell liked what the telephone
taps were producing and wanted a broken
one fixed and later in the hearing in
the fourth hour McCord said that the
committee to re-elect the president got
intelligence reports from the Justice
Department almost on a daily basis he
said assistant attorney general robert
mardian helped him get things now let's
go to the hearings which senator Sam
Ervin gaveled open
I think Jonathan Cole next with mr.
james mccord use well gentlemen you
should give to the sister Senate Select
Committee on presidential campaign
activities shall be the truth the whole
truth and nothing but the truth so help
you God
mr. mr. McCord would you bring the
microphone closer to you so that we can
all hear I know your voices
now for the record would you burst state
your name and address
JW FCC ID number seven Wender w IM in
the ER wonder court now i you
accompanied with council this morning i
am will counsel please identify himself
yes my name is Vernon pence to our
junior business address is man 1016
Street Northwest Washington DC mr.
McCord prior to your testimony you have
any preliminary statement you may wish
to make to the committee yes there is I
would like to state as I did when I've
heard that the executive session of this
committee I'd like to be as accurate as
I can at some of the dates that I will
refer to they're approximately
seventy-five to a hundred different
dates I will try to recall to the best
of my memory some may be inaccurate as I
stated when I first appeared some
matters go back some 12 to 14 months and
some of the matters that our vendors
this committee therefore set forth in
writing attempting to reconstruct my
memory for the best of my ability
I may refer to some of those memorandum
during this meeting and two other notes
that pertain to dates and I hope you
will bear with me and understand the
reason reason in that regard state
finally that my participation in the
Watergate operation on my part for
whatever reasons I may have had at the
time
whatever is now on the event at the time
it wasn't there was a mistake and a very
grave mistake which I regret now is a
fact
now mr. McCourt that you presently stand
convicted on a multi count federal
indictment charging burglary electronic
surveillance and conspiracy arising out
of the break-in of the Democratic
National Committee headquarters the
Watergate strike and are you now
awaiting sentence on that conviction
that is correct what is your
professional background mr. McCourt
I was born in 1924 and more Iike wau Rik
Waurika Oklahoma
I worked first for the Federal Bureau of
Investigation in 1942 1943 in Washington
DC in New York City and radio
intelligence duties subsequently in 43
to 45 there's an Air Force with an Army
Air Corps officer from 1948 to 1951 I
worked as a special agent for the
Federal Bureau of Investigation in San
Diego in San Francisco California I
worked from 1951 to 1971 Trull
Intelligence Agency as a security
officer I retired from that agency in
August 1970 after 25 years Federal
service you want the educational
background no sufficient mr. McCourt
during your service with the CIA or the
FBI did you receive any awards or
commendations for your service I
received on retirement in August 1970
the Distinguished Service Award for
outstanding performance of duty with CIA
and I'll see you sir mother now prior to
your arrest indictment and conviction
relating to the Watergate incident well
you ever arrested charged with the crime
or the subject of any complaint or
disciplinary proceeding in your life
I've had traffic violations in the
Washington area is that all now were you
an employee of the committee to re-elect
the president I was what position did
you hold what community I came aboard
first
security consultant part-time in
September 1971 by the way how did you
get that job I was introduced initially
by mr. John Caulfield to mr. Robert Odle
the director of administration who
testified yesterday and based on that
interview was acquired part-time and
then full time and January the 1st of
January 1972 now what were your duties
in that position as security MP the
duties were essentially the function of
the protection of the property and the
lives of the personnel committee in
their facility there and subsequently in
the facility at Miami Florida that the
committee and some of the White House
staff were to occupy during the
Republican National Convention in August
of 1972 the duties were primarily those
of physical security protection of
personnel security some doctor document
security and some protected people work
for the family of John Mitchell now for
those duties and that assignment that
you just described under whose direction
did you work primarily under the
direction of mr. Robert Otto who was my
immediate supervisor in the committee
the responsibilities with mr. Mitchell
and his family received directions from
him from the
Mitchell from Robert Odle from Fred will
rule at various times now did there come
a time when you work under the direction
of gordon Liddy yes sir good what was
mr. Liddy's position at that time he was
at first from December until about March
1970 December 71 to about March 1972
General Counsel are they committed to
reelect the president thereafter he was
occupied the same position with the
Finance Committee for the election of
the president when when did this
arrangement or which you work under his
direction begin mr. Liddy the first
discussions of the arrangement again
sometime in January 1972 early January
could you briefly state the committee
mr. Ford what it was I could give a bit
of a background if you want that when he
first came aboard the committee in
December 1971 he began to we struck up
in the clan ups we'd had a common
background and he began to question me
regarding the state of the art of
certain technical devices for one thing
listening devices and so on this
appeared to be at that point in time a
professional interest a normal
professional interest of someone who's
worked in the field or law enforcement
we discussed as well the common topic of
common interest to he and
to me and to others who were senior in
the staff of the anticipated
demonstrations and possible violence
that might be coming up in San Diego
California which was originally
scheduled to be the convention site for
the Republican convention in 1972 in
August the discussions the discussions
on other matters I believe it might help
the panel operator might give us some
advice in this respect I think in the
mid horse if we could turn up the volume
would you continue it yes
gradually the discussion in December
January February in 1972 with mr. liddy
gradually developed into more and more
conversation on his part with me in the
offices of the committee for the
election of president regarding the
technical devices and political matters
pertaining to the forthcoming convention
and it became apparent that he had an
interest in several areas of
intelligence gathering pertaining to the
Democratic Party and the Democratic
convention and in which it was
contemplated by planned by him and by
others who we refer to these
conversations as John Mitchell John Dean
the counsel for the president Jeb
Magruder then
in January the interim director are they
committed to real life lesson which it
appeared that those men the four of them
were in the by late January a planning
stage in which political intelligence
was to be discussed at meetings in the
attorney general's office mr. Mitchell's
office and in which mr. McDonough mr.
Liddy was seeking from these certain
information regarding the costs and the
types of electronic devices that could
be used in bugging that a part of the
budget proposal which he was working
working on a second part dealt with
photography operations plans estin
photography operations the third part
dealt with the broad area of political
espionage what intelligence
report when you speak of political
activities political intelligence
bugging activities what do you mean in
terms of how that was to be obtained
your knowledge of what he told you area
of political espionage and he telling us
he did not that can set that one aside
pretty quickly he did not elaborate on
in much detail at all to me personally
apparently others were involved with him
which I can refer to later in the
conversation specifically mr. hunt he
Howard on the topic of photography
clandestine photography in which he was
preparing the budget and preparing to
meet with the gentlemen I referred to
before in planning sessions dealt with
photographic equipment and that cost the
photographic equipment and specific
items of equipment that would be used
against the Democratic Party the
Democratic hierarchy in Washington
primarily but also in Miami Florida the
electronic devices which he referred to
specifically were of a variety of types
what the pipes were but how we're wood
how are they going to be used where were
they replaced from your understanding
the initial initial interests specified
by mr. liddy in this regard were number
one against mr. Larry O'Brien and
chairman of the Democratic National
Committee in Washington DC at his
residence and subsequently at his office
in the Watergate office building perhaps
other offices of the Democratic National
Committee McGovern headquarters in
Washington DC were mentioned quite early
in 1972 and there was some general
reference to the Democratic National
Convention facility or site where that
might be located at their convention in
the summer of 1972 I know this report
and connection
with this assignment in which you were
having these discussion of the mobility
did you come to associate yourself with
mr. e Howard hunt Bernard Barker Eugene
Martinez Frank Sturgis and Virgil
Gonzalez yesterday and as a result of
that association and your agreement with
mr. Liddy did you with mr. Barker
Sturgess Martinez and Gonzales illegally
entered the Democratic National
Committee headquarters on two occasions
one one or about May 30 1972 and the
other in the early morning hours of June
17 1972 on the first occasion on or
about May 30 1972 did you install two
telephone interception devices or
wiretaps on two office telephones one on
the telephone is Spencer Oliver and the
other on the telephone of Lawrence
O'Brien
leaving aside for the time being why you
broke into the Democratic National
Committee headquarters to order gate the
second time on June 17 and what
circumstances led to your arrest you
were in fact arrested by plainclothes
and the District of Columbia
Metropolitan Police shortly after you
entered is that true that's correct
and if that arrest has led to your
present conviction do you tell the
committee mr. McCourt why after a
lifetime of work as the law enforcement
without success defied any blemish on
your career did you agree with mr. liddy
to engage in his program of burglaries
and illegal wiretapping and specifically
the two break-ins on May 30 and June
17th the Democratic National Committee
headquarters before gate
if there were a number of reasons
associated with the ultimate decision of
mine to do so one of the reasons and a
very important reason to me was the fact
that the Attorney General himself mr.
John Mitchell at his offices had
considered and the food the operation
according to mr. Liddy secondly that the
counsel for the president mr. John Dean
had participated in those decisions with
him
that one was a top legal officer for the
United States and the Department of
Justice and the second gentleman was a
top legal officer in the White House
that the matter had apparently been
given well just for a second I noticed
you say
mr. Mitchell had approved according to
Liddy do you have personal knowledge of
mr. Dean's participation or this or this
also according to mr. live mr. Dean's
participation came to me through two
sources one was mr. Liddy one was Mr
Hunt D Howard hunt in discussions which
subsequently came to me
to compromise your testimony work try to
adhere strictly to the rules of
a court of law but it would be helpful
to million I believe maybe if in each
instance and information you give us
it's not at their own personal
first-hand knowledge you would identify
that site and give us a sword yes sir I
believe I was responding to a question
of the council that what was not what
were my reasons which involved in my
case a conclusion and motivation and
intent as opposed to what someone else
at your testimony is to the effect you
assured by mr. mr. ladies opera most
operations and you also received the
shorts not on the info that was based on
what you were told by mr. liddy and mr.
Hart that is correct sir maybe I would
say that though upon the rules of
evidence this at present stage of this
Herrin would not be admissible to show
the connection any connection of this
model by John Mitchell
John Dean Dino
but testimony which mr. McCord is given
is relevant to show the motorists which
prompted mr. McCord to participate in
the matter yes I'll explain I am NOT a
lawyer I'm a layman I will try to give
the information of my knowledge for this
firsthand or secondhand to the benefit
of this committee and you can stop me at
what point you may feel that spark
elusive mr. chairman if I might just
elaborate that point I thoroughly agree
with the statement made with the
Chairman I associate myself with him as
to its content and formal and I once
again I'm not trying to impede the
progress your testimony it would be very
helpful to us however if when
information is not first-hand
information you would identified so we
can simply note it for our records that
effect thank you now would you proceed
certainly glad to some time in July 1972
shortly after I got out of jail which
was in June 1972 about midday there was
a note in my mailbox at my residence and
when I opened the letter which had not
been stamped and our sent through the
mails it was a note from Jack Caulfield
Science Act which said go to the phone
booth on route 355 near your home and he
gave three alternate times at which I
could appear at the phone booth for a
telephone call of him to the best of my
recollection one of those times was very
shortly thereafter an hour too later
and another time was the next day and it
seems to me that the third time was the
following evening
I went to the telephone to that
telephone booth on route 355 that
afternoon the same afternoon
as I best recall and I heard the voice
that I have referred to in this
memorandum off today I do not know the
individuals identity he had an accent
that I would refer to as a New York
accent he said that he had formerly
worked with Jack Caulfield
he said that I'm a friend of Jack's I
formerly worked with him Jack will want
to talk with you shortly he will be in
touch with you soon I received a call
subsequently from mr. Caulfield to the
best of my recollection it came to my
home first and it said go to the same
phone booth on route 355 which I did and
there mr. Caulfield told me that he was
going overseas in a few days he said if
you have any problems if you have any
problems call my home and leave word and
I will call you back from overseas to
your residence he said when you call my
home ask for mr. Watson Watson w8 eson
he said also after I returned if you
ever need to call me at my office he
gave a number the office number and he
said simply leave word that mr. Watson
is calling so it was a name that both of
us were to use my name and his name I
did not contact him during the next 30
days and I next heard from him to the
best of my recollection sometime in
September 1972 on a Sunday afternoon
I keep recalled the exact date but I do
recall that mr. Clark McGregor then the
head of the committee for the real X in
the President had just finished a
television appearance on one of the talk
problems such as Meet the Press and mr.
Caulfield called me at home and again
asked that I go to the telephone booth
on route 355 which I did he stated that
he had trouble getting my home phone
number because it was an unlisted number
and he stated quote we are worried about
you
this is mr. Caulfield statement and he
went on then to read briefly the words
of a deposition which he planned to give
to the Democratic National Committee I
had read in the papers a few days before
that he had been scheduled as a witness
before the Democratic National Committee
and he read the deposition to me
indicating that this was in effect what
he planned to say in the deposition
there was some reference during the
conversation to something going with a
double agent in quotes mr. Clark
MacGregor as I recalled in his
television appearance
had referred to the possibility of there
being a double agent in the Watergate
operation and the inference was that it
was mr. ballin and I told mr. Caulfield
that so far as I was concerned whoever
had drawn that conclusion had drawn an
absolutely erroneous conclusion that I
had seen absolutely nothing that would
indicate such and I simply wanted to go
on the record with mr. Caulfield to that
effect we do want to get back to the
statement but in short what you're
saying is that mr. Caulfield's friend
Watts by name is the man whose voice you
heard that no sir that's and most
respectfully that's not what I said sir
broad I believe mr. Caulfield used the
name Watson it was not his friend
yes your honor well how many times did
you hear this I unidentified voice the
best of my recollection I heard they
heard the voice prior to the January
call two or three times I cannot be
absolutely sure but at least twice
before January well these in connection
with contacts with coffee always yes
that's what I meant yes thank you
statement from where you've left office
record I guess the prior sentence that
we don't have a continuity
I believe my last sentence that I read
was a the same message was once again
repeated obviously read w that appears
in the statement that you have on page
three the next sentence was that I told
the caller that I would not discuss such
matters over the telephone and he stated
that mr. Caulfield was out of town on
Wednesday January 10th 1973 the same
party to the best of my recollection
called and told me by phone that Jack
would want to talk with me by phone on
Thursday night the following night
January 11th when he got back into town
and requested that I go to the same
phone booth on route 355 near the blue
fountain inn he also conveyed
instructions regarding a personal
meeting with mr. Caulfield
on Friday night January 12th on Thursday
evening January 11th the same party
called me at home and told me that
Caulfield's plane was late and wanted
and that he speaking of Caulfield wanted
to meet with me personally the same
evening that is Thursday evening after
arrival I told him that I would not do
so but would meet with him on Friday
night if he desired later that evening
the same evening Thursday evening about
9:30 p.m.
coffee will call me on my home phone and
insisted on talking with me but my
family refused to let him do so since I
was asleep on Friday night January 12
from about 7:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. I met
with Caulfield at the second /
that is overlooking that Potomac it's a
parking area or looking the Potomac
River on George Washington Parkway in
Virginia Court how did that meeting be
arranged how did you know that go there
it was as previously stated I believe on
the Wednesday call to the best of my
recollection in which this unidentified
party had said that Caulfield will want
to meet with you personally and he said
on Friday night go to the second
overlook on George Washington Parkway
and he specified a time and that is what
I followed through with I met with
Caulfield at the second overlook on
George Washington Parkway that is the
second one leaving Washington going out
in Virginia and talked with him in his
car in his automobile Caulfield advised
that he had been attending a law
enforcement meeting in San Clemente
California and had just returned
I advised him that I had no objection to
meeting with him to tell him my frame of
mind but that I had no intention of
talking executive clemency are pleading
guilty that I had come to the meeting at
his request and not of my own and I was
glad to tell him my views he said that
the offer of executive clemency which he
was passing along and of support while
in prison and rehabilitation and help
towards toward a job later quote was a
sincere offer unquote he explained that
he had been asked to convey this message
to me and he was only doing what he was
told to do he repeated this last
statement several times during the
course of the meeting that we had then
and I might add during subsequent
meetings which he and I had my response
was that I would not even discuss
executive clemency are pleading guilty
and remaining silent but I was glad to
talk with him so that there was no
misunderstanding on anyone's part about
it I might explained that the trial was
going on during this period this was the
first week of the trial which began on
January 8th Caulfield stated that he was
carrying the message of executive
clemency to me quote from the very
highest levels of the White House
unquote he stated that the President of
the United States was in Key Biscayne
Florida that weekend referring to the
weekend following January 8th following
the meeting that we were then in that
the president had been told of the
forthcoming meeting with me and would be
immediately told of the results of the
meeting
previous meeting previously announced
this this evidence is competent to show
what if anything John coffee feel did to
induce mr. McCord to plead guilty and
keep silent it is not any evidence in
his present state of the hearing that
connects in it makes any connection
whatever has any relevancy as to the
president precisely yes sir he further
stated that quote I may have a message
to you at our next meeting from the
President himself
unquote I advised Caulfield that I had
seen the list of witnesses for the trial
and had seen Jeb McGruder's name
appearing as a government witness I
advised him that it was clear then that
Magruder was going to perjure himself
and that we were not going to get a fair
trial
further I told him that it was clear
that some of those involved in the
Watergate case were going to trial and
others were going to be covered for
parenthesis I was referring to John
Mitchell John Dean and Magruder Francis
closed and I so named those individuals
incidentally during the conversation and
I said that this was not my idea of
American justice I further guys in the
same room as wise as far as John
Mitchell John Dean and the booth is
concerned that is it does not connect
them legally speaking yes
I further advised Caulfield yes I
further advised Caulfield that I
believed that the government had lied in
denying electronic interception of my
phone calls from my residence since June
19 June 17 1972 and that I believe that
the administration had also tapped the
phones of the other defendants during
that time I mentioned two specific calls
of mine which I had made during
September and early October 1972 which I
was certain had been intercepted by the
government and yet the government had
blithely denied any such tapping these
were my words to mr. Caulfield I
compared this denial to the denial the
government had made in the Ellsberg case
in which for months the government had
denied any such impermissible
intersection of calls and yet in the
summer of 1972 had finally been forced
to admit them when a judge ordered by
court order a search of about a dozen
government agencies and calls
intercepted were then disclosed on that
state separate from the record at this
point that as I have previously stated I
had no knowledge whatever of any
activity monitoring or what-have-you of
mr. Ellsberg calls as have previously
come out as have earlier come out in the
newspapers in the past few days it's
purely coincidence that I happen to
mention the Ellsberg case at that time I
had been following the case in the
papers and I knew the history of the
case to go on with a statement I stated
that if we were going to get a fiction
of a fair trial through perjured
testimony to begin with and then for the
government to lie about illegal
telephone interceptions at the trial
ought to be kicked out we start all over
again this time with all of those
involved as defendants at least in this
way quote some would not be more equal
than others unquote before the bar of
justice and we
get a fair trial the executive clemency
offer was made two or three times during
this meeting as I recall and I repeated
each time that I would not even discuss
it in our discuss pleading guilty which
I had been asked to do in the first
telephone call received on the night of
January 8th from Caulfield's friend
whose identity I do not know I told him
referring to mr. Caulfield that I was
going to renew the motion upon
disclosure of government wiretapping of
our telephones Caulfield ended the
conversation by stating that he would
call me the next day about a meeting
that same afternoon Saturday January 13
and that if I did not hear from him he
would want to talk with me by telephone
on the evening of Monday January 15 1973
I did not hear from Caulfield on
Saturday but on Sunday afternoon he
called and asked to meet me that
afternoon about an hour later at the
same location on George Washington
Parkway he stated that there was no
objection to renewing the motion on
discovery of government wiretapping and
if that failed that I would receive
executive clemency after 10 to 11 months
I told him that I had not asked anyone's
permission to file the motion he went on
to say that quote the president's
ability to govern is at stake another
Teapot Dome scandal is possible and the
government may fall everybody else is on
track but you you are not following the
gameplan
get closer to your attorney you seem to
be pursuing your own course of action
don't talk if caller before the grand
jury keep silent and do the same if
called before a congressional committee
on court I might add that two
congressional committees had prior to
January 9th prior to that date meant
conducting investigations into this this
case I believe it was a Patman committee
in the mystic Senator Kennedy's Senator
Pat limb Senator Kennedy's committees
paragraph my response was that I felt
paragraph my response was that I felt a
massive injustice was being done that I
was different from the others that I was
going to fight the fix case and I had no
intention of either pleading guilty
taking executive clemency are agreeing
to remain silent he repeated the
statement that the government would have
difficulty in continuing to be able to
stand I responded that they do have a
problem but that I had a problem with
the massive injustice of the whole trial
being a sham and that I would fight it
everywhere no I should make the
correction and the Sunnis that I've just
read when I saved the whole trial being
a sham because I did not at that point
in time making a reference at any time
to judge Sarika I made just the contrary
of his being anything but an honest and
a dedicated judge and I don't want the
Sunnis to be misread he asked for it he
talking about Caulfield asked for a
commitment that I would remain silent
and I responded
like then I gave him a memorandum on the
dates of the two golf calls a lion in
September 1972 in October 1972 that I
was sure have been intercepted and said
that I believe the government had lied
about them he said that he would check
and see if in fact the government had
done so on Monday night January 15th
1973 Caulfield called me again at the
phone booth on route 355 near my
residence I informed him that I had no
desire to talk further that if the White
House had any intention of playing the
game straight and giving us a semblance
of a fair trial they would check into
the perjury charge of mine against
Magruder's Magruder and into the
existence of the two intercepted calls
previously referred to and I hung up on
Tuesday morning the next morning about
7:30 mr. Caulfield called my residence
but had already left for court on
Tuesday evening
Caulfield called and asked me again to
meet with him and I responded not until
after they had something to talk about
on the perjured testimony and the
intercepted calls he said where's the
effect give us a week and a meeting was
subsequently raised On January 25 1973
what he said he would have something to
talk about about 10:00 a.m. on Thursday
January 25 1973 in a meeting lasting
until about 12:30 a.m. the correction
12:30 p.m. we drove in his car toward
Warrenton Virginia and returned that is
we drove there in return and a
conversation ensued which repeated the
offers of executive clemency and
financial support while in prison and
rehabilitation later I refused to
discuss it he stated that I was quote
fouling up the gameplan unquote and I
made a few comments about the game plan
he stated that quote they unquote had
found no record of the interception of
the two calls I referred to and said
that perhaps it can wait until the
appeals he asked what my plans were
regarding talking publicly and I said
that I planned to do so when I was ready
that I had discussed it with my wife and
she said that I should do what I felt I
must and not to worry about the family I
advised Jack that my children were now
grown and could understand what I had to
do when the disclosures came out he
responded by saying quote you know that
if the administration gets its back to
the wall it will have to take steps to
defend itself and of course I took that
as a personal threat I told him the
response I'd had a good life and the
will was laid out and I had thought
through the wrists would take him when I
was ready he said that if I had to go
off to jail that the administration
would help with the bail premiums I
advised him it was not a bail premium
but a hundred thousand dollars straight
cash if that was a problem I would have
to worry about through family and
friends on the night before sentencing
Jack called me and said that the
administration would would provide the
hundred thousand in cash if I could tell
him how to get get it funded through an
intermediary I said if we ever needed it
and I would let him know I never
contacted him thereafter neither have I
heard from him and that completes the
statement
I went to one more questions report have
you ever made that statement before
before this Select Committee other than
when you appeared before minority
counsel and myself a couple of days ago
but have you ever made that statement
before this committee before the grand
jury or before any investigating body
until this time no sir could you please
state to the committee why when you were
making statements in earlier time before
this committee before the grand jury and
other enquiring bodies you fail to
disclose that information I'll be glad
to to take the grand jury and get that
one out of the way when I appeared
before the grand jury I told them that
they inquired about political pressure I
raised the pressure that had been put to
me by the Hunts and told them as well
that there was a personal friend who was
involved also in political pressure
against me
that personally at that point in time it
was very painful thing to go into it
that I would be glad to do it at a later
time and I hope they would defer that
question until subsequent to questioning
and I would be glad to answer it they
said they would do so I believe when I
appeared before the executive committee
here on March 28th that your Senators
asked me the same question and I said
yes there had been political pressure
applied to me that one such pressure had
been by a government one of your
senators asked me if it were my
I'm an employee I think senator Montoya
and I responded yes and he asked if it
were anyone with the white house and I
said no he asked if it were from the
Department of Justice and I said no it
was clear I think to the committee that
I would like to be able to answer that
question later time the reason for the
delay is that I wanted to be as accurate
as I could about the information and get
it all together because it involved the
President of the United States in my
opinion and it was a very serious matter
no one to be very careful about it and
accurate I have no further questions mr.
chairman mr. McCord I'd like to limit my
questions to one area and that's what
you know about the planning of the
Watergate break-in first of all I'd like
to separate what mr. hunt told you
someone said about it from what mr.
Liddy told you someone said about it mr.
hunt indicate to you that he knew
anything about these meetings that
Mister later referred to with Mitchell
Magruder indeed your question is did mr.
hunt just indicate that he knew anything
about the meeting yes sir yes he did
what did he say about those meetings did
he indicate that he was present in any
of those meetings I'm trying to recall
exactly the context of the discussions
if I may go into that a little yes sir
the meetings as best I recall which
these references by Mr Hunt took place
took place in mr. hunts office in the
robert f Mullen company offices at 1,700
Pennsylvania Avenue they took place in
April and May of 1972 to the best of my
recollection mr. Liddy was present in
all of the discussions mr. Liddy during
those discussions as best I recall would
raise the topic of the planning and the
progress of the operation itself it's
going forward
and comments about mr. Mitchell was
saying to him about what should be done
in terms of the priorities of the
operation that is which ones would be
done first and second and mr. hunts
comments his exact words I can't recall
but his comments made to me and not to
me made in the three-way discussion that
we're taking place during that period of
time indicated to me that he had
separate independent knowledge perhaps
from mr. Liddy perhaps from other
sources of his own that mr. Mitchell and
mr. Dean and mr. Magruder had planned
the operations in the attorney general's
office to begin with and that at least
mr. Mitchell and mr. Magruder had had
subsequent discussions after the first
meeting in the attorney general's office
and that mr. Magruder and mr. Mitchell
had had discussions with mr. Liddy and
mr. Mitchell's offices at the committee
to re-elect the president regarding the
ongoing plans to carry out the
operations does this answer your
question
well I think it naturally raises several
other questions what did he say
as best you can recall to indicate to
you that he had any independent
knowledge other than what mr. Liddy
might have told him I think he would
refer to comments to Gordon as though as
you and I have discussed before that
would not fall in that category then it
would fall in that category as things
that mr. Hahn had learned separate and
apart from what mr. Liddy atole it would
fall in the category I said two things I
said one what mr. Liddy had told him
before and secondly what it appeared to
me he had learned from
and I've mentioned to this committee a
name of another individual but I will
not raise it at this point that mr.
Hutton referred to in conversations in
which we were talking about the
Watergate operations and the planning
for the operations it's on the statement
place and I should refer to it the name
previously referred to the name of mr.
Colson that was interjected into the
conversation by Mr Hunt in the meetings
with mr. Liddy and mr. hunt and me in
his offices Hut's offices at 1700
Pennsylvania Avenue and specifically
when Mr Hunt had a plan and typed plan
operational plan for the entry of the
Democratic National Committee
headquarters thank you
do you recall anything that mr. hunt
said to you about mr. Coulson's
environment or did you just get the
general impression that mr. Colson was
involved in some way from what mr. Hart
told you I believe my previous testimony
which I will restate before this
committee was to the effect that when I
had met Mr Hunt in his offices at 1,700
Pennsylvania Avenue with mr. Liddy that
he had referred to his previous work at
the White House for mr. Colson referring
to him as his superior that during the
sessions that mr. hunt mr. Liddy and I
had in mr. hunts offices Mr Hunt had a
typed plan that he had typed himself
step-by-step for the history of the
Democratic National Committee
headquarters that at one point he held
this plan in his hands and his words
were he interjected the name of mr.
Colson into the conversation at that
point words to the effect I will see
Colson and he held the paper in his hand
in this sense and from that statement I
drew the conclusion that he was going to
see mr. Colson and discuss our giving
the operational plan that near the
conclusion but this is also the words as
best I recall in which mr. hunt raised
the name of mr. Colson I'm sure that
will will need to be pursued but getting
back to my original point is that
independent knowledge that Mr Hunt had
of these meetings that were referring to
he did not bring mr. Colson into the
conversation with regard to these
particular meetings that you previously
referred to hitti I believe he was he
appeared to have knowledge I said that
he appeared to have knowledge of the
previous meetings of the Attorney
General in the attorney general's
offices of mr. Linney mr. Magruder and
mr. Dean my response was to the effect
that he headed from mr. Liddy from what
he told me believe also that he had I
believed also that he had
this information from others well I
don't want to believe at the point and
I'm certainly not trying to you've been
you know doesn't matter of fact you say
that you think he had independent
knowledge and of course this is a
serious matter we I think we have to
determine whether or not we're relying
on mr. Liddy or Mr Hunt and mr. lady for
this information which is course
extremely important information and
anything that you can state that mr.
hunt told you to indicate that he had
any independent knowledge of these
meetings I think would be very relevant
that what you can do it now or it's
applied several memoranda but very
helpful in that regard you want to do
that at a subsequent time I think that
would be approving that pot told you
indicating he knew about these meetings
independent of what Liddy told him now
let's get back to the meetings and a
little bit more detail mr. Ford how many
meetings that did mister ladies say
there were when when when when the when
the overall surveillance operations were
discussed
well how many meetings overall up until
June 17th did mr. Liddy indicate that he
Mitchell Magruder and Dean or any
combination of these people had to
discuss general it was stated to me
embarrassing summary meetings with mr.
Liddy between January and June 17th by
misleading that he had had several
meetings with mr. Mitchell that they
appeared to be ongoing meetings with mr.
Mitchell from the planning stage until
the completion of the plans for the
second entry operation on June 17th that
there appeared to be continuous
discussions between at least mr. Liddy
and mr. Mitchell and sometimes with mr.
Bueller according to statements which
mr. Liddy made to me and they they began
with the planning and they continued
through the ongoing operation itself and
the monitoring and the planning for the
second operation and discussions at
various stages according to mr. Liddy of
the various priorities of the bugging
and photography operations what was to
come first partners to come second mr.
Liddy come to you after each important
meeting were after each meeting where
these matters were discussed and give
you a summary of the meeting and what
was discussed and what the conclusions
were not after each meeting at all but
we would see each other regularly during
the week I'd say if not once a day at
least every other day
most weeks between January and June 17th
sometimes he would tell me I'm getting
ready to go up to see the Attorney
General to discuss this operation
referring to the Watergate operation to
discuss the operation
he had planned sometimes he would tell
me I've just come back from that
operation and here's what we're going to
do now some of these some of these
meetings according to him according to
what he told you while mr. Mitchell was
still Attorney General yes if some after
he came to the committee really yes
where money figure discussed most
important what he said what was the
report of mr. Lilley what was the
original proposed budget for therefore
the overall surveillance operation I
assume we are talking about the overall
operation of not just the Watergate
break-in is that correct talking about
three categories like westernized
photography operations and the
electronic operations and the original
figure in February that mr. Liddy
proposed as I saw in writing in a draft
on his desk at one occasion and in a
typed memorandum on a second occasion
with approximately 450,000 dollars all
right was according to him was that
budget approved the sequence of the
events were that there were planning
meetings in January or February are both
in the attorney general's offices in
which mr. Deane and mr. Magruder mr.
Liddy and mr. Mitchell discussed the
original amount four hundred and fifty
thousand dollar amount and subsequently
approximately 30 days after the first
formal meeting that I heard referred to
but mr.
there was a figure of approximately
250,000 dollars which he said had been
approved for the operation and he
referred also to some additional funds
which he had in the order of
approximately a hundred thousand dollars
so that figure is not absolutely certain
in my mind which would total about
something around three hundred thousand
dollars three hundred fifty thousand
dollars according to him was was this
was this money problem the the need for
subsequent meetings was that a concern
of the people involved whether it was
there quite a bit of discussion as to
exactly how much money should be spent
on this project money was a topic that
he said was discussed
he said the individual operations were
discussed that is specifically the three
parts of his budget which he had
prepared on charts which he had taken to
at least one of the meetings that is the
three parts of political espionage and
photography and so on it was not limited
the discussion was not limited to the
matter of funding my understanding was
all aspects of the operations were
discussed in those meetings by the for
individual let me just ask you this did
he tell you that John that John Michell
ever told him that this budget is just
too high and you'll have to do it for
less or something so no I understand did
he ever tell you that
they specifically discussed the
Watergate operation if any of these
meetings which meetings are your
Frankton thought about any meetings
which he had with the Attorney General
when any of these other people were
present plans with the Watergate
break-in specifically was discussed very
deftly what did he say about that
particular discussion it was a
continuous discussion he said with mr.
Magruder from the earliest planning
session in February through the first
entry operation Memorial Day weekend and
then into the second operation in June
and he talked to me at various times and
it was clear from what he said that
clear to me that mr. Liddy was having
such meetings he stated that he was
having such meetings in which the
Watergate operation was apart Watergate
referring to the Democratic National
Committee headquarters itself so I would
say there are many such discussions by
mr. Liddy with me in which he stated
that meetings that occurred with mr.
Mitchell and Magruder specifically on
this after February I think that one of
the areas that has not been covered is
the role of the person who was on the
other side of the wiretap which you
installed in May the end of May 1972 now
did you employ mr. Baldwin is there
Alfred Baldwin for that purpose
yesterday and what was his particular
assignment with regard to monitoring the
wiretap his assignment was to listen on
a radio receiver that received the
transmissions from the Democratic
National Committee telephones in which
the electronic devices have been
installed in connect
with the two dates of Memorial Day
weekend on June 17th 1972
where was he located when he was doing
this monitoring on the seventh floor of
the Howard Johnson motel across the
street from the Democratic National
Committee headquarters
now mr. court can you see the chart
National Committee headquarters now mr.
McCourt can you see the chart on the
easel there yes now the picture purports
to show the Howard Johnsons on your
right and Watergate office building on
your left
does it represent the room 723 which was
used by mr. Baldwin's of monitoring
steps and he was in just right across
the street and knowing that in his
monitoring how was he recording what he
was hearing he would listen with
headphones to the conversations that
were being transmitted and would take
down the substance of the conversations
the time the date on the yellow legal
side scratchpad and then ultimately
would type them up a summary of them by
time chronological summary and turned
that type log in to me and I would
deliver them to mr. Liddy did you
deliver him to mr. Liddy directly yes
now yes now did there come a time when
you were delivering those logs that they
were retaining I know at least one
instance in which that was that occurred
because I saw them being retyped
was it your understanding that that
occurred on more than one occasion even
though you yourself yes what was the
purpose of retyping the log of mr. Liddy
explain that to you I believe some
general explanation in substance said he
wanted them in a more final complete
form for discussion with mr. Mitchell or
and whoever else received them now who
who did this retyping Sally harmony har
emmalin-- why who is the Secretariat to
the stability at the committee for the
re-election of the President and did you
have occasion to observe her typing the
log yesterday the dedication to talk to
her while she was doing yesterday and in
that conversation you have a Sally
harmony did you get did she give you any
indication that she understood what she
was doing when she was three typing that
lot yes she did as a matter of fact
could you briefly describe it are going
into any of the contents what a what a
log would be what actually would be
entered would on the log which mr.
Baldwin would first type and be read
site by mrs. harmony it would be similar
to any other telephone conversation that
one person might make to another
beginning with a statement on his log of
the time of the call who was calling
whom a summary of what was said during
the conversation itself including names
of persons who were mentioned at the
tamal and apparently believe you was a
significant sufficient significance to
set forth on the law then it would be
true that anybody reading that would
have no difficulty knowing it came from
a telephone conversation that's correct
now I think you testified earlier and I
just wanted to get it clear for the
record that your discussions with mr.
Liddy concerning meetings he had with
the Attorney General indicated that mr.
Liddy was actually meeting with the
Attorney General with regard to this
operation that's all the way up to what
time what was the last date that mr.
Liddy indicated that he had a meeting
with the Attorney General regarding this
particular bugging operation my best
recollection is immediately before June
17th during I would I would estimate
during that week immediately preceding
June 17th
did mr. Liddy indicate what the nature
of that meeting was all I can recall at
this point is some substance of some
conversation as a general conversation
to the fact that where we discussed
getting ready for the operation that's
coming up and I think just just the
overall planning for the operation when
you
when you got going back very briefly to
the information that you were getting
from the Internal Security Division was
was your trip to Miami related in any
way to the Department of Justice's
investigation of the event of veterans
for the Against the War Vietnam no was
your any of the investigation that you
engaged in with regard to that group
related to the Department of Justice
investigation in in Miami give me more
any other place I'm sorry would you mind
restating that question I'm not sure I
quite I think in your testimony you
indicated that information you were
receiving from the Internal Security
Division and other information related
in some respects to activities of the
Veterans Against the War Vietnam yes was
your activity and we're getting that
information or any investigation you
were conducting on behalf of the
committee related in any way to the any
investigation that the partner Justice
was making with the same group if if by
that it's meant that whatever
information I was acquiring separate and
apart from the Internal Security
Division was being transmitted back them
to them the answer would be no it was a
one-way street
it was at that time now the youth names
in the that time now the youth named in
the second break-in of the Watergate
four persons
in addition to the involvement mr. Liddy
in HoN and you name is de Barker mr.
Martinez mr. Sturgis mr. Gonzalez I
think you also mentioned that in the
first break-in there were three
additional persons could you name them
for the record please
I don't know that I know the names for
certain I have been shown some
photographs by the FBI if you want me to
relate that you do not know the names of
your own not have you identified
photographs of persons who did accompany
you in the first I've seen two
photographs of men that I believe we're
in that first operation as a result of
that identification that you then learn
what their names were
I heard the names the names that I
recent what I'm trying to say as the
names I recently heard were apparently
not the true names so I can't associate
the two together that way but the
photographs when one individual was I
believe that I made a probable
identification officer mr. Felipe D
Diego
and the other name associated with the
photograph that identified was a mr.
Renaldo RTI an Ald old picot P ICO
now mr. McCord I've had placed at your
table a telephone which is not connected
to anything and
what I would like you to do because you
testified with regard to a particular
bugging operation of Democratic National
Committee headquarters if you would
demonstrate to the committee the manner
in which you placed the so-called bug in
the telephone and what I plead like to
ask the the custody of the receiver to
please take the receiver over to the
table
my my council asked for assurance that I
won't be prosecuted on this installation
as I said the telephone is connected is
not connected and no conversations being
involved now I also will now I also will
show you a item which is was entered as
an exhibit as six seven sixteen B at the
trial and I understand was taken from
either your possession or in the
vicinity of where you were when you were
arrested and I think is a miniature
transmitter a microphone and ask if you
would identify that
yes I believe this is the one entered
into evidence yes now will you identify
exactly what that is this is a radio
essentially a radio transmitter which is
powered by the power within the
telephone system the telephone line
itself and this transmitter is connect
was connected or was for the purpose of
being connected into the telephone
itself the purpose of transmitting those
conversations over the phone when that
when that transmitter is connected in
the telephone is it capable of picking
up both sides of the conversation and
broadcasting it to another place yes it
is could you just demonstrate not not
actually attaching it how you would
place that in that telephone that's
before you the cover would be taken off
of the telephone when you lift the base
a little so that the Senate committee
can see what you're doing
cover would be taken off of the
telephone I have no further questions
first for this day who made arrangements
for you to receive as you say on virtual
daily basis
documents from the Internal Security
Division partner justice mr. Robert
mardian made the contact with as I
understood it with the Internal Security
Division where he had formerly worked
now he he at that time he made the
contact he was working for the committee
to re-elect the president having retired
from his Justice Department job yes sir
he had been the head of that particular
division of the Department of Justice
or he transferred to the committee so I
understood just now much mr. Caulfield
came to see you rather was when he met
you on three occasions that took you out
to twice to George Washington Parkway
and one time towards Warrenton Virginia
was he driving his own automobile or
government automation Toby I believe he
was driving them his own automobile
insurance
yes mr. court I know you've been here a
long time and I appreciate that fact I
do have a couple of rather pointed
questions I'd like to ask you I don't
fancy myself in the role as a prosecutor
or a defense lawyer but I feel like
there are a couple of things that I need
to ask you about questions are going
begging and I plan to do so in that
spirit and I'm sure you understand mr.
McCord there was some testimony some
previous testimony concerning the use of
tapes the use of tape on the locks of
the doors at the Democratic National
Committee and you testified in response
I believe last Friday in response to a
question from Senator Baker who placed
the tape on the locks on the door on the
second occasion and he responded I do
not know the second occasion being the
June 17 break-in as opposed to the first
occasion when I believe you said was May
27 according to civil deposition which
you gave on April 30 1973 suit brought
by the Democratic National Committee
against you and others and page 167 of
that deposition your testimony is
related as follows
the reason for checking it first of all
on the way over I checked the back door
of a DNC or the Watergate Hotel office
building basement level the reason for
checking it is that
at the earlier meeting earlier that he
didn't evening it had been decided that
I would be elected to go into the DNC
and take the doors so there could be
ready access for them to get in and the
man with the locksmith wouldn't have to
pick a series of door to get in I did
that
it took perhaps ten minutes could you
explain that discrepancy sure because I
believe your question was stated who
taped the monthly lock on the second
occasion that they were taped at least I
understood the question that way on June
17th they were taped on two different
occasions and my response if it was not
clear was intended to convey this idea
that I taped it on the first occasion
that they were taped on the evening of
June 17th and that someone else did the
second taping that evening perhaps an
hour so later among the other four men
the other four defendants just which one
did so I don't know that's what I was
trying to convey I see how many doors
were taped the second time I think there
were several because there are several
doors that normally would be perhaps a
half a dozen or more there's about three
down on the lower level and then there's
some doors up entering the carters from
perhaps fourth fifth sixth seventh
floors that I would leave or tape that
evening I don't know about the corridors
they were not removed when I saw them on
the lower level of course there would be
no need to retake them had not state
been removed was it see if I understand
your question there'd be no reason to
retake them to take the doors a second
time if the first tape had not been
removed no that's correct
you heard officer Schaffer I believe
miss McCord to testify last week that
the when the doors were locked there at
the DNC that one could get out of an
office building without a key without
having the door taped could you explain
first of all what was the need to tape
the doors once you were inside and
secondly why did no one seemingly have
the presence of mind to remove the tape
on the b2 level and leave it there for
the officer client well I think you
almost have to see the different doors
involved to be able to understand that
situation and it involves this there are
there are some stairwells coming down
off of different floors and even
stairwells I believe off of the same
floor say on the six or seven that call
down like a rule that is you may go on
into the stairwell off of the Carter
from one exit and it'll go down one
stair well they go around the corner and
you go down to another one it'll go down
a separate stairwell to flying down some
of those doors are at night locked from
both sides as I recall so that some are
not but let me correct that summer lock
from the inside the were locked so that
if you were trying to get out of the
corridor down into a stairwell
late at night you couldn't get in to the
stairwell but you might be able to go up
a couple of floors say to the 8th floor
and I think there was a door open there
and you would have to come
and then go in to say you want to get
back down at the 6th floor and go into
the car go into that door from the
stairwell side you could get in so that
daughter for example would have to be
taped if you had in mind getting out in
a hurry
and getting down it had to be taped from
me you have to go into it in the
stairwell side first some these other
doors walk from both sides I believe
you're right right
I believe you're right you'd almost have
to be there to understand you would it's
pretty complex is this the reason the
8th floor door was was taped on this
case so did you personally check out the
doors check the situation to determine
whether or not tape would be needed on
on particular doors before you went in
to take those doors or did anyone check
it out well we knew from the previous
operation on Memorial Day that they
would have to be taped if you're going
to plan to leave in a hurry if you got
caught there for example that's a police
came in on you before you got in you'd
have to tape the doors or otherwise you
couldn't be sure that you could get out
what about the answer to the second part
of my question here you are with what
you you were an experienced man and CIA
and FBI and evidently these other men
were experienced in their own way and
yet the tape to the b2 level readily
accessible to anyone coming by there to
check as the officer did was left on the
door you didn't you didn't remove the
tape why was that done and secondly why
was the risk taken to go back up into
the dnc with no means of escape
evidently once you were caught after you
had seen that someone had removed the
tape and for all practical purposes you
had to assume that someone was aware
that somebody was trying to get in or
had already gotten you why was that
decision made to start with why was
decision made to go back in there after
you knew someone knew that you'd been
tampered with that door all right so
good question because we we had a lot of
discussion later
we we're in jail
we came by the lower level door than
originally been taped assuming that it
was the tape was still there and we
could get right on in without any delay
this is all of the five men together
getting ready to go up into the
Democratic National Committee
headquarters and we found that that tape
had been taken off and that the door was
now locked speaking in the basement
level so we regrouped so to speak right
below the restaurant in the Watergate
Hotel and talked over what to do and it
was agreed that the locksmith and I
believe one or two of the men would go
back over and make an effort to pick the
lock to get in and that was that
decision reached well after you knew
that someone had detected your being
there for you all right let me we had
the decision was just to send the
locksmith back over and let him start to
work in order that there not be any more
delay in time and for the other demand
Barker and I believed one other to go
back up to Mr Hunt room and discuss the
situation with mr. Liddy in terms of
what do they feel we should do next
should the option should they go ahead
and pick them to try to pick the lock
and get on the inner shouldn't be called
off and for me to go back over to motel
waiting for word on what was to be done
understood well understood that this was
a calculated risk and sending them back
over to begin picking the mark but on
the other hand the more time that went
by the fewer people there would be
around the Watergate Hotel and the more
conspicuous and then would be therefore
that had some risk in terms of delaying
the matter any further
sort of so I sort of decided to go both
directions to go ahead and start to get
in go back up and talk it over with him
see what they want to do who made the
ultimate decision
- as to whether Knights were going back
in that night you say that you say that
there were risk in waiting you mean what
waiting in it later that night or
waiting until another day or another
week or what well there were risks in
waiting any longer that night for
example wine I'd call the whole thing
off and come back in two three nights
well it looks like pretty good idea now
I guess it doesn't very good it was it
was made on the basis that first of all
as I say any further delay in time made
five men stand out that much more that
night blend time at night mediate five
men stand out that much more around the
hotel and around the Watergate office
building therefore rather than lose that
time the decision was to go both
directions to go ahead and send the
locksmith back or let him start to work
on it and let the other two men go up
and talk it over was ready or not and
see what they wanted to do did they want
to proceed or not let me ask you a
question about regard to another subject
as I understand your testimony is man
that I believe on July 27 of 1972 he
received her first payment from mrs.
hunt only $15,000 and that was - do you
through November I believe that you
received from some some additional money
in December which was to be payment in
advance the rest of December and January
yes we called do you recall the date of
a payment in December I believe it was a
second of December December the second
you mentioned the letter that you wrote
to mr. Caulfield the anonymous letter in
in December do you recall the date and
the summer
better no I can only remember the week
which was a week following Christmas
December 25th very hard to be someone
yes so your letter in mr. Caulfield was
after you'd receive the diva these
number two payment yes and what was that
payment how much money was it was far
the to two months payment for the salary
for December and for I think additional
money fifteen thousand dollars please
was there some question in the latter
part of November or during December as
to whether or not additional money would
be forthcoming yes it was question on
Hunt's part and mrs. hunt communicated
that question to me I think that
probably had something to do with the
letter that he wrote that I've described
a three-page letter that was read didn't
have anything to do with your letter
that you wrote the Caulfield none
whatever my letter had to do was my
anger about this plan to lay this
operation on CIA and I think the letter
sort of indicates that miss McCord you
you have stated that you were concerned
from sometimes shortly before the trial
I believe up until recently that the
trial was a sham that the trial was
fixed that was a miscarriage of justice
and I assume that you're talking about
essentially the fact that some of the
right people were not being prosecuted
and and you were not being treated right
with regard to full disclosure by the
government is that it was that
essentially correct I think I can state
it more precisely it was the fact that
there was perjured testimony in the
trial itself by a key witness that key
witness was mr. jebin Magruder his
testimony was
the whole trial pardon me just a minute
the basis on which you say his testimony
was perjured was perjury I assume has to
do with what mr. liddy has told you
about mr. Bruton McGruder is that not
correct told me before June 17th and the
comments we exchanged at the time mr.
Liddy excuse me mr. Magruder was up on
the stand stating that he knew nothing
about the Watergate operation prior to
June 17th so the answer to my question
is yes no not completely there is also a
factor that mr. Magruder in addition to
testifying that he knew nothing about
the Watergate operation and his
testimony being probably that of the
most important witness in the trial also
could have named others who were
principals in the case specifically mr.
Mitchell and mr. Deane according the
information I had from mr. Liddy in
which I had no doubt that you could have
to couldn't you I could have done right
why didn't you I'm glad to talk that one
over to why didn't I get on the stand
yes it seems to me again if we're not
preface a little bit according to the
statement of your attorneys there at the
time mr. all your defense was that
essentially as you stated to Senator
Baker here today that you felt like that
because the violence in the country and
so forth it actually to pose the threat
possibly your life and the lives of
other people that's in the record Gordon
oh sure I take it your defense was not
that at that time part of your
motivation was not as you have stated
here before this committee that you
thought you had had the right posture go
ahead without being in legal difficulty
because
which was involvement because mr. Dean's
involvement that's part of what you've
told us but evidently you didn't tell
mr. Ofsted mr. Alex didn't use that as
part of your defense
I'm wondering about the answer to those
questions why didn't you come forward at
that time and why didn't you tell mr.
ulchhhh
what could have been an even more
significant part of your defense at that
time
well I've had many conversations with
mr. alt about the facts of the case and
the other principles involved the
decision of mind as to when to come
forward with the information which I did
was basically my decision and it was a
day at a time decision on my part as to
when was the propitious time to tell the
facts on this case she waited I waited
until I had an opportunity to tell
number one man I believed to be an
honest judge judge Sarika number two to
tell this committee so that there would
be the proper forum for all of the facts
to come out and to be discovered I felt
for example during the trial itself that
if I'd come forward and told the story
at that point in time in light of the
nature of the information I had which
some people have described as hearsay or
secondhand the rules of evidence as I
understand it may have excluded some of
that information being provided in
testimony or at least I felt that all of
the facts would not be developed during
the trial if I got up on the stand and
related them to me it was a matter of
when was the right time to tell it and
this was a most difficult decision it
was not influenced by money or anything
else that was influenced by basically my
own reasoning as to when was the right
time to tell the story so that the
would be an adequate forum for a
development of all of the facts in the
case and I think my decision has been
the right one I think I told judge
Sarika first and I told this the
committee second and I'm fully convinced
that that was the right decision
was there any decision was there any
doubt in your mind that if you'd come
forward at that time to judge Sirica
that he would not have taken the
appropriate action and that the matter
would not have been handled according to
the trial transcript judge Sirica
practically pleads with anyone to come
forward and tell the truth he states
here on page fourteen ninety nine of the
trial transcript they know anything
about this case they want to talk before
the grand jury it's not too late
that's up to them I mean I always
operate under the theory that the truth
never hurts anybody if they wait and
they're convicted and then they decide
to talk well I can't say anything about
that but I think if they're going to
talk if there's anything in their minds
along those lines the time for him to do
it is during the trial he was stating
there and was there any doubt in your
mind that you would be compromised in
any way if you if you went forward and
told Judge Sirica back in January not
judge Sarika in the least
he's sort of the lone man I felt I could
depend on in this whole case he's also a
man who will be sentencing you shortly
that's a true - that's true - but what
I'm saying about my belief in the man is
honest and genuine but you ask my
reasons and the reasons were the ones
I've stated and I think the decision as
to the timing of saying what I did was
was right and I don't regret that
decision
I believe as I've said if I'd done it
earlier that quite frankly the facts
would not have come out and been
developed as they have and then develop
this committee in the way that they have
but you were of course receiving money
during this period of time also weren't
you I received money in the December 2nd
floor when board journey or a second but
that quite frankly had as I told the
people who were sending it had no I was
gonna say were you attempting with your
conversations with mr. quality or did
did the possibility that you could get
your case may be thrown out of court
because of the wiretap did that did that
enter into your decision to hold out and
not come forward weren't you trying at
that time with mr. Caulfield to get him
to get the government to admit illegal
wiretap so that your case would be
thrown yes now let me repeat what I've
said before so it's as clear as I know
how to make it said I thought the case
was was a sham but the trial was because
of the perjured testimony because of the
withholding of highly material
information by Jeb Magruder which would
involve higher ups in the case number
one and perjury number two which means
that we were not getting a fair trial
and I said this in many ways detect that
I felt told we ought to not that really
just as far as I was concerned the man
that that the case be kicked out we
start all over again on this thing and
start all over in a circumstance that
number one we'd get a fair trial
we're not getting a fair trial if
perjury is being committed thank you
have you were interested in your fair
trial which of course is your eyes for
all that mr. McGruder his failure to in
your eyes tell the truth about it did
that prejudice your case absolutely if
he is a key witness and all other
testimony seems to fall into place
around his testimony and he is
withholding the names of principals in
the case itself in other words a that
prejudice is a case and it come it puts
a completely totally different light on
the case in other words the the trial
itself was preparing to indicate that
mr. Liddy was the sum total of this
operation he was a leader the director
under the whole package and that the
case cut off at his level did not the
case the case obviously extended much
higher in other words mr. McGruder could
have come in come in and implicated
higher-ups so that you wouldn't have to
is that the way in which his testimony
prejudice your case and he can prove it
that's that's the way you looked at
looked at that because I assume there
was no controversy over the fact that
you were caught with four remain for the
men huddled behind the desk with burglar
tools on you and eavesdropping equipment
no argument about that at all but I felt
that under any circumstances at least
man deserves a fair trial absolutely and
if we were not getting absolutely you
mentioned your calls in September
knocked over to Chilean embassy and the
Israeli embassy this of course was well
let me ask you this what was the purpose
of those particular phone calls I think
I've previously stated if not uh we
stated to try to test throat a test try
to test the accuracy of the government's
response regarding intercepted
conversations of mine that was concerned
that there had been wiretapping since
June 17th of my telephone conversations
and this would provide a test to see if
in fact all the government records or
the government some 12 agencies had in
fact been searched the inferences by the
response of the government 12 days 14
days after motions by all of us
there is nothing
and the government of any intersection
of mr. Koretz calls anywhere and I knew
that as I've stated it takes more than
14 days normally to search twelve
different government agencies for
records or such the telephone
how was this a test mr. McCord did you
think or did you know that these two MCS
had been bugged
I assumed that they were